So there are pharyngeal tonsils, so the pharynx which is quite high here,
which are quite important.
It's part of a ring called Waldeyer's ring.
It is completely dependent, these tonsils, on the proper dynamics of
my sphenobasilar system.
It is an immune system that is both for respiratory defense
and for the digestive level.
These are tonsils.
which are very important for your immune balance.
It's the most important immune system.
The importance of good mobility of your sphenobasilar symphysis
because we will find ourselves with
an opening and closing of small canaliculi inside here which
will allow this
immune recognition and this exchange. I also have a notochordal apex that happens here
in
the posterior wall.
which will disappear later. So treating a craniosacral system in its
entirety is also improving my immune system. If we go
a little further
now and we get to a molecular layer, what is also
important is to understand that this tonsil system contains
the
same immunoglobulin, the same lymphocytic system, the same lymphoid system
as in the lower part.
That is to say, the cecum must be considered
as a digestive tonsil below that balances on
a functional level.
If you want to treat everything ENT, because it's the same terrain, pharyngitis,
tonsillitis, rhinitis, bronchitis, all the "itis"
of your ENT system, you have to treat it.
on the digestive level because it is the most important force to support
that system.
It is often just a reaction, an imbalance on the intestinal level
and more specifically
on the peritoneal framework and more precisely on the cecal level
and even more precisely on
the appendicular level. In a child, you have to be careful, you don't manipulate
foolishly a
We can destabilize a system very, very strongly and we will see that this cecum
will be completely dependent on the liver and that very often a hepatic destabilization
leads to cecal destabilization which leads to immune destabilization.
This system is very important in the first ten years of life. We
integrate, form, mature our
immune system.
first years of life, after that it's another problem and today
I'm going to talk to you about the
greater omentum and the omental bursa, the retro-gastric pouch and
I'm going to
explain how all this influences each other from a stomach movement and the relationship
with
the lesser pelvis on a tissue, hormonal and immune level. We
have here the Eustachian tube which
has a facial lining that continues with the tongue.
That means that every time I swallow,
I will have a rebalancing of my inner ear.
But look at the continuity.
Every time you swallow, you clear the Eustachian tube.
Again, this small movement here is very important.
It is related to this tonsillar system.
There are two linings, what we call the foramen of Morgagni,
which are related to the pharyngobasilar membrane
and with the membrane...
which we call the pharyngeal tubercle, but which are related to the phenomenon
of swallowing,
that is, the hyoid movement and the opening and closing movement.
Seromucous otitis in children, initially, you have to realize that the
canal
is actually still very horizontal, with little ability for mucus to flow,
which has a continuation that occurs. And if you have an allergic phenomenon, dairy,
or high, etc., you will have an overproduction of mucus, but
the ear is not well eliminated.
And over time, little by little, around 7 years old, the system descends, it goes from a horizontal
to a vertical.
It is an important movement to rebalance between the
temporals and the occiput,
the opening of the frontal bone with an opening of your temporals.
So it does this and that, and it allows for better...
drainage. But it is also important in children sometimes to restore the
pressure.
You have a small device where you inflate a balloon, you swallow
and the air comes back and it allows to
restore the pressure. In children with otitis, I have noticed that there is a small
behavior because the ear sometimes reacts to an allergen, but the allergen
can be food-related, but it can also be in your environment. I no longer beg.
my mother's or my sister's or my brother's cries and
it allows you to protect yourself a little.
Sometimes you see this small discharge, that's why a child at
7 years old reaches the age of
reason. Why does he reach the age of reason? Because his sinuses open, his
sinuses
pneumatize at the same time as his mastoid becomes completely functional
on its level.
So that means that in my words, I can now symbolically face it.
Before that, you had the sinus here, which was the maxillary sinus.
And the maxillary sinus is related to your adrenal glands.
These are children who are little snot-noses.
They have a runny nose, they are little snot-noses.
It's an imbalance of your adrenal glands.
But children or elderly people who come with recurrent sinusitis,
you have to go see what happened.
At that time, I have frontal sinusitis, maxillary sinusitis.
They are still little snot-noses.
They should have been treated when they were 3 years old.
As long as it's not out, it's not out.
Sometimes, some people have hurt themselves badly.
They developed huge adenoids.
Completely invaded because they haven't solved the problem.
Don't forget that this Eustachian tube is also related to the...
sphenobasilar and especially in relation to the internal and external rotation
of my sphenoids.
A sphenoid blocked in internal or external rotation prevents the proper movement
of
my temporal linings and the sphenoid with
also the pterygoids on a vascular level
because
at the level of my linings.
I have a whole vascular plexus that reabsorbs a little
all the tensions that come from the intramandibular system, etc.
And don't forget the relationship with pharyngeal arch number 1 and 2,
which will completely rebalance the inner ear system in relation to Meckel's cartilage
and
in relation to the styloid cartilage which is related to the whole Eustachian tube system.
system.
The tongue is a vagal stabilizer.
If I now put something in your mouth, like that, I can destabilize you vagally.
The vagus is important.
The mandible and the hyoid bone represent an articulation between
the heart that descends and the tongue that fixes itself.
That means that the depth of the tongue will depend on the depth of your cephalization.
The stability of the tongue.
depends on the descent of its root with the thyroid.
The thyroid descends, so the stability of the tongue will also depend
on my thyroid.
Down to the level of the arytenoid corpuscles finally, on an anatomical level.
How can I position myself?
Everything will actually depend on your heart.
That's why you can feel your heart or your pericardium in your throat,
or the heart in the belly.
In fact, these are impulses that have nothing to do.
with high blood pressure, it's not that you have high blood pressure that you feel it, it's like the depth of the
disease, it depends on the depth of the frequency and the tension in which
you will pass a good number of information that are not of a purely
physiological type but are of a deep vibratory type, that's why frequencies have an impact, that's why Tibetans use mantras
for example you see the Aum or things that
Like that, there is an archetypal depth that re-neutralizes the information.
The Aum, in the Tibetan sense, is something that cleanses.
There is an archetypal depth that re-neutralizes the information.
There are three syllables.
You have the A, U, Aum, which says I purify my body, my speech
and my spirit.
As we started doing the brahma-murari, it gradually approaches an Aum.
It is a sound that will re-neutralize you, that will re-purify you, that will put you back
in this sense.
its basic archetype.